Florida in North America where a gentle
giant faces daily danger every winter
Florida manatees gather in huge numbers
along the densely populated coast of
America's Sunshine State these large
aquatic mammals are distantly related to
elephants and can weigh up to half a
tonne they're attracted here by the
warmth of naturally occurring hot
springs
but in these crowded waterways they are
at constant risk many bear the scars of
traumatic encounters for decades boat
strikes have been a leading cause of
manatee deaths as mammals manatees must
frequently come to the surface to
breathe air
but despite growing up to four meters in
length they are difficult to spot from
above the water during the last century
as the human population of Florida grew
and boat traffic increased the manatee
population began to fall by the 1990s
only around a thousand remained it
seemed they might disappear forever from
American waters
but faced with the loss of these
much-loved neighbors many in Florida
were determined to take action strict
speed limits with heavy fines were
imposed safe zones created
and the health and well-being of the
remaining manatees was constantly
monitored and assessed
[Music]
[Applause]
20 years later these simple measures
have been remarkably effective
the Florida manatee population has
increased from 1,000 to over 8,000
and for the first time in 50 years they
are no longer classified as an
endangered animal
the turnaround in fortunes has brought
benefits for both the manatees and the
people of Florida thousands of tourists
now visit the state to see and swim with
these gentle giants
contributing millions of dollars to the
local economy this new industry is
carefully managed and regulated to
prevent any harmful impact on the
manatees or their environment
balancing our needs with those of the
wildlife we share our planet with isn't
always easy but the recovery of the
Florida manatees demonstrates that the
rewards from doing so can lead to a
better future for all of us